cloud-article-classroom-project (#892)
arduino/docs-content: content/arduino-cloud/03.tutorials/document-projects-through-webeditor/classroom_project.md

---
title: 'Creating Projects using the Web Editor'

> description: 'An article on how a teacher can use the web editor '

Reviewer: Is there any way that we can remove the suggestion that this is only for teachers? I would say that anyone could read this?

> description: 'An article on how a teacher can use the web editor '

Author: I could make it similar to the one in the introduction. however, this is more specific to a classroom context so I would still keep it for teachers (for now.) If I have to change it then I will have to make changes to the whole document.

tags: 
  - article
author: 'Lenard George Swamy'
---

## Introduction 

Many of you might have an interesting idea for your project but struggle with documentation and sharing it with your class. In this article you will learn how to use the web editor to document a project. We will illustrate the process with an example project  

***Note: We recommend that you read the article (Getting started with the Web Editor)(/getting-started/getting-started-web-editor) before you proceed with this tutorial.***

## The Essentials 

> Every arduino project has 3 essential elements that will make your teaching effortless. These are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every Arduino project has 3 essential elements that will make your teaching effortless. These are
```

Reviewer: It seems like there is missing a section after the bullet point list to explain why these are the 3 essential elements. Perhaps you could elaborate?

* Circuit diagrams 
* Sketch Files 
* Picture of your project 

> ### 1. Create a circuit diagram

Author: It doesn't really matter for me. I thought having step-by-step instructions would make it easy to read and digest.

> Start by thinking about the layout of your circuit. It could be as basic as a pen on paper but more the fidelity the easier it is for your students to understand how to connect the components. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by thinking about the layout of your circuit. It could be as basic as a pen on paper but a higher-fidelity sketch might make it easier for your students to understand how to connect the components. 
```

For this tutorial we created a circuit of the proximity meter using [tinkercad](https://www.tinkercad.com/circuits).

> ![proximity_meter_circuit.png](assets/classroom_project_circuit_diagram_proximity_meter.png)

Reviewer: Please update all alternative texts to say what the image show, this text will show underneath the image in the tutorial.

### 2. Connect the components 

> Once you have created the components, its good to connect the components to ensure all the connections are right. Sometimes its also good to support your document with photos of your connections. Heres a picture of the circuit. This gives your students a good visual sense of how the circuit looks like in real life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have created the components, it's good to connect the components to ensure all connections are correct. Sometimes it's also good to support your document with photos of your connections. Here's a picture of the circuit. This gives your students a good visual sense of how the circuit looks in real life.
```

> ![proximity_meter_real_components.png](assets/classroom_project_photo_proximity_meter.png)

Reviewer: this photo is just a blue square?

Author: For now. I will have to build the circuit, will take a photo of it and add it here

### 3. Open a new sketch.

> Open the Web Editor by clicking on the ![header_dropdown_icon.png](assets/icon_header_dropdown.png) icon in the header. 

Reviewer: this icon doesn't show as intended. I would say to remove this and only use the next image to show what the reader should do.

![proximity_meter_real_components.png](assets/classroom_project_webeditor.png)

> When your editor is ready, create a new sketch by clicking ![new_sketch_icon.png](assets/icon_new_sketch.png) and rename the sketch to the name of your project. 

Reviewer: same here - the icon doesn't show up "in the text" but rather on a new line and it breaks the  structure of the tutorial

![classroom_project_rename_sketch](assets/classroom_project_rename_sketch.png)

### 4. Write your sketch. 
Write your sketch or copy-paste your sketch from another project. For easy readibility ensure that
* Adding comments to describe important statements 
* Assigning good varible names 

> * Inundating the code 

Reviewer: What does "inundating" mean?

Here's the example sketch of the Proximity Meter project for your reference.  

> <div class="sketch-iframe" data-src="https://create.arduino.cc/editor/ArduinoEdu/e833b75d-5989-4049-aec4-a2472303415d/preview?embed&snippet=L73-L77&hideNumbers&height=120#L73-L77"></div>

Reviewer: This doesn't show up in the preview, we could have to show this as just code instead.

Author: Yeah I saw that too I will remove it

## Documenting your Project 

> To use the project, students must be able to clearly understand the goals of the project and they must do in each step of making the project. The web editor comes with a ReadMe.adoc file attached to the sketch. Here you can document all the intructions required. The template comes with these sections 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the project, students must be able to clearly understand the goals of the project and they should go through each step of creating it. The Web Editor comes with a ReadMe.adoc file attached to the sketch. Here you can document all the instructions required. The template comes with these sections:
```

* Credits
* Project description
* Instructions 
* Troubleshooting tips

### 5. Fill in your credits.

> The first part of the Readme are credits where you can fill in your personal details. Students can use this section to reach out to you if needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first part of the ReadMe are credits where you can fill in your personal details. Students can use this section to reach out to you if needed. 
```

> ´´´ arduino

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` arduino
```

:Author: LenGeo
:Email: {AuthorEmail}
:Date: 22/02/2023
:Revision: version#
:License: Public Domain

> ´´´

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

![classroom_project_documentation_credentials](assets/classroom_project_documentation_credentials.png)

> [Note] - license is something you don’t have to be concerned with unless you want to share your project on the internet 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Note: License is something you don’t have to be concerned with unless you want to share your project on the internet.***
```

### 6. Describe your project
Give a short description of the project. In this example we will describe what the Proximity Meter is going to do. 

![classroom_project_documentation_description](assets/classroom_project_documentation_description.png)

### 7. Provide instructions 

> Briefly describe what you intend your students to do with this project. Make sure you provide all details right from intalling the right plugins to uploading the code to the board. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Briefly describe what you intend your students to do with this project. Make sure you provide all details from installing the plugins to uploading the code to the board. 
```

![classroom_project_documentation_instructions](assets/classroom_project_documentation_instructions.png)

> Note- Most students would be new to the web editor and they wouldn’t have the webeditor installed. Copy paste this link if would like to https://docs.arduino.cc/arduino-cloud/getting-started/getting-started-web-editor

Reviewer: You can't install the Web Editor - what is it you are trying to say here? Also I think the sentence stops too early?

Author: Ah I meant to install the plugin.

### 8. Other Details

> The rest of the document can be ignored as its intened to be use be other sets of user. You can rather add some troubleshooting tips that addresses common errors and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rest of the document can be ignored as it's intended to be used by the readers of your documentation. If you want, you can add some troubleshooting tips that address common errors and 
```

Reviewer: Seems like the sentence end too soon?

## Share it with your class
Once you have finished creating the essential components of your project, you can upload the files and share it with the rest of your class. 

### 9. Import your files 

> Keeping your files organised in plae is important as it makes your life easier. You can import the circuit diagram and the photo of your project from the dropdown next to the sketch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keeping your files organised is important. You can import the circuit diagram and the photo of your project from the dropdown next to the sketch. 
```

![classroom_project_import_files.png](assets/classroom_project_import_files.png)

### 10. Share the URL 

> After you have imported all your files. Your project is ready to be shared with the rest of your class. You can do this through the Share feature of the web editor 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have imported all your files, your project is ready to be shared with your class. You can do this through the Share feature of the Web Editor.
```

![classroom_project_share_project.png](assets/classroom_project_share_project.png)

>  

Reviewer: Please add a summary or conclusion section here!

---
title: 'Creating Projects using the Web Editor'

> description: 'This is the template for creating an article for the Arduino Documentation website.'

Reviewer: Please update the description here. This will be what is shown in the card when you search for the tutorial as well as in the cloud section

tags: 
  - article
author: 'Lenard George Swamy'
---

> ## INTRODUCTION 

Reviewer: All headings should be in Title Case (not all capital)

> Do you have an idea for your project but don’t know how to execute it for your class ? Use the web editor to start creating this project. For this example we chose to go with a simple project where you can read the distance sensor and make a proximity meter. 

Reviewer: We should make this less "markety". The first sentence sounds like a beginning of a marketing video, instead of describing what this tutorial will go through.

## HARDWARE & SOFTWARE NEEDED 

> - Arduino Uno Rev2 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Arduino UNO WiFi Rev2 
```

> - RED LED 5mm 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Red LED 5mm 
```

- Piezo 

> - Ultra Sonic Sense 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ultrasonic Sensor 
```

- Web Editor 

> Note - We recommend that you read the article https://docs.arduino.cc/arduino-cloud/getting-started/getting-started-web-editor before you proceed with the tutorial. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***Note: We recommend that you read the article (Getting started with the Web Editor)(/getting-started/getting-started-web-editor) before you proceed with this tutorial.***
```

## BUILD THE PROJECT 
How about we start our project with getting the basics setup. Here we will run you through how the essentials elements for a project that will be essential for you to teach anything related to programming and electronics.

01. Create a circuit diagram
Start by thinking about the layout of your circuit. It could be as basic as a pen on paper but more the fidelity the easier it is for your students to understand how to connect the components. For this tutorial we created a circuit using tinkercad. 

> ![Well thought out alternative image text.png](/Users/lenardgeorge/Documents/Arduino Drive/Cloud/Web Editor)

Reviewer: Update the link to the asset here, it should only have to be (assets/[image title])

02. Connect the components 
Once you have created the components, its good to connect the components to ensure all the connections are right. Sometimes its also good to support your document with photos of your connections. Heres a picture of the circuit

03. Open a new Arduino Sketch 

> Open the online webeditor and click on the (add new sketch file) icon to open a sketch file. Once you  

Reviewer: Seems like there are some content missing here?
